Evaluating NoSQL alternative for Chilean Virtual Observatory Services
In the present, the standards and protocols for data access in the Virtual 
Observatory architecture (DAL) are in general implemented with relational 
databases based in SQL. In particular, the Astronomical Data Query Language
(ADQL), the language used by IVOA to represent queries to VO services, was 
created to satisfy the different data access protocols, such as Simple Cone 
Search. ADQL is based in SQL92, and has extra functionality implemented using 
PgSphere.

An emergent SQL alternative to this are the so called NoSQL databases, which
are classified as follows: Column, Document, Key-Value, Graph, Object, etc.;
with each one recommended for different scenarios. Within their notable
characteristics we can find: schema-free, easy replication support, simple API,
Big Data, etc.

The Chilean Virtual Observatory (ChiVO) is building a functional prototype
based in the IVOA architecture, and the relevant factors considered are the
following: Performance, Scalability, Flexibility, Complexity, and
Functionality. Currently, it's very difficult to compare these factors, due
to a lack of alternatives.
 
The objective of this paper is to compares NoSQL alternatives with SQL through 
the implementation of a Web API REST that satisfies the ChiVO needs: a 
SESAME-style name resolver for the data from ALMA. For this we propose a test 
scenario by configuring a NoSQL database with data from different sources and 
evaluating the feasibility of creating a Simple Cone Search service.

This comparison will allow measurement of how feasible is the application of 
Big Data databases in the Virtual Observatory.
